The following is a simulation of how the smart mall interacts with the Shoppers and how the AI brain analyzes, correlates, and recommends items the Shoppers are specifically seeking or shows items the Shopper may want to consider. The AI Brain is literally following around the Shoppers and individually analyzing each person.

The ability to invite additional Shoppers during a visit to the Smart Mall provides the Shoppers with a digital social opportunity - to be able to come together with people from anywhere and shop together. For each Vendor, the need for brick and mortar is reduced because it leads to the ability to reach millions from one location which showcases a range of products and has the support of the Smart Mall to carry the burden of both marketing and solicitation. The Vendor can feature an existing store or create a sophisticated digital store. Inventory data is fed back to Vendors in real time as items are considered or purchased.

From the moment the Shopper enters the Mall, the AI brain collects the person's retinal scan. Not only for log on purposes, but to monitor physiological changes to the Shoppers reaction to various Mall cues. Initially, a range of data is collected to create a data profile on each Shopper and the creation of their Avatar. This is considered baseline data. While the Shopper moves through the Mall, the recommendations and suggestions are only seen by that particular Shopper. The Shoppers will see other people in the mall but not their recommendations. As you can see, the store fronts are providing the Buyer or Window Shopper with a specific set of possibilities based on both the data variables collected as well as the more intrinsic variables such as the physiological changes and decision-making paradigms (such as stare or consideration time) that are correlated with past Mall experiences.

What is not in this simulation is the specific Avatars based on their anatomy and physiology that represent each Shopper. Unlike the simulation characters, the Avatar is what each person sees. It can try on any item and demonstrate how the Shopper will look in the item. The result is not just an item recommended but the ability to see the item on. Returns for item purchase are reduced, as a result, curing one of several issues from single dimensional eCommerce platforms such as Amazon or eBay. The Smart Mall is not more cumbersome; it is far more efficient than these one-dimensional systems.

The brain will continue to collect data on the Shopper's reaction to the selections, their pleasure, displeasure, happiness, non-reactions with making purchase decisions, and any discussions that might have resulted from those considerations or purchases. In addition, Shoppers in any shopping group will analyze how the peers interact even if they are not actively shopping but sharing opinions. Those opinions and who is sharing them such as socioeconomic status, education, and physical appearance are just part of the vast amount of physical and word data enhancing the recommendation and predictability selection process. Like the human brain, the AI of the Smart mall never stops learning.
